---
layout: thesis
title: Week Two Progress
excerpt: Semantics and syntax of writing a paper. Doing research, part two.
---

# Week Two

* Table of Contents
{: toc}

## Lessons Learned from Chapter Three: Style Specifics
* Titles of papers should be _concise_ and _informative_
* First impressions are important. Take particular care with the first
  paragraph.
* Diversify your structure, length of sentences and paragraphs, and choice of
  words.
* A paragraph should only consist of discussion on a single topic.
* Check carefully for ambiguous statements.
* Sentences should be structured simply; usually no more than a line or two.
* Most text should be in the past or present tense; present tense useful for
  "eternal truths."
* Don't repeat yourself.
* Organize your sentence to place stress on the important words in that
  sentence.
* Terminology should be defined for the reader.

## Lessons Learned from Chapter Ten: Doing Research, Part Two
This is a continuation of [Lessons Learned from Chapter Ten: Doing Research,
Part One](/blog/2012-03-23/week-one/#lessons_learned_from_chapter_ten_doing_research_part_1).

* The first step to doing research is to formulate a hypothesis.
* One component of a strong paper is a precise, interesting hypothesis.
* Whether your hypothesis is correct or not, supporting evidence must be
  gathered.
* Always consider the possibility that your hypothesis is wrong.
* A view of papers is that they are an assembly of evidence and supporting
  explanation.
* Research can't simply be divided into "good" and "bad," but it is not
  difficult to distinguish valuable research from work that is weak or
  pointless.
* It's quite debated whether computer science is a real "science."

{% include definitions.markdown %}

{% comment %}
vim: ft=jekyll sw=4 ts=4 sts=4 tw=80
{% endcomment %}
