---
layout: thesis
title: Week One Progress
excerpt: Good style in scientific writing. How to do research.
---

# Week One

* Table of Contents
{: toc}

## Lessons Learned from Chapter Two: Good Style
* Science writing does not have to be dull.
* Poor writing prejudices readers against the presentation material.
* Text should be taut. It is admirable to say much in a small space.
* Break the rules if there is a good reason to do so.
* Don't qualify your claims too much. Some is appropriate though.
* Each topic should be discussed to a similar depth.
* Do not imply that the paper is sentient.
* The use of "we" is a disputed topic.
* Don't show off; write for an ordinary reader.
* Be specific; not being so can imply ulterior motives or inferior
  understanding.

## Lessons Learned from Chapter Ten: Doing Research, Part 1
* A paper is only a tiny window into your research.
* The origin of a research investigation is typically a moment if insight.
* Clear short-term and long-term goals are necessary to begin a research
  project.
* The fact that a topic is in a fashionable area should be at most a minor
  consideration.
* Novice researchers should strive for easily achieved outcomes.
* There is no well-defined role for an advisor.
* Research projects build on a body of prior research.
* Reading papers is not like reading textbooks. You don't need to understand
  every line.
* Smaller, more attainable deadlines are critical to a project's success.
* Approach a research project with the goal of the paper in mind, not the goal
  of the experiment.

Part two can be found [here](/blog/2012-03-28/week-two/#lessons_learned_from_chapter_ten_doing_research_part_two)

## MS Project/Thesis Topics
Potential topics for my MS project or thesis can be found
[here](/thesis/projects).

{% include definitions.markdown %}

{% comment %}
vim: ft=jekyll sw=4 ts=4 sts=4 tw=80
{% endcomment %}
